---
title: Building A Semi-Automated Productivity Tracking Bot (Shell, Linux, GitHub, Watson)
date: '2022-10-04'
---

## Prologue

### A Burning Desire

This project started for me with a few questions. How much did I work last year? What exactly did I work on? How much of that was on personal side projects? What days of the week are my most productive, are there any patterns I can find?

Consistency of effort makes me feel good. Most of my effort is during my day job, but a lot of the times, I never get to quantify the effort I’ve put in. I wanted to change this.

### A Windy Day

One of my favourite recent flicks is [1917](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1917_(2019_film)>). The movie entailed a Lance Corporal William chosen to deliver an important message about a strategic counter-move to Colonel Mackenzie. Finding Colonel Mackenzie meant getting through many hurdles, and putting his life at risk. William was shown to not give up until the message was delivered.

This sounded like a great metaphor for my bot, _william_. It should make sure that no matter what, if I worked on a given day, the message is to be delivered to my logger, _mackenzie_ 😉.

In this case there will be many william’s (a bot instance on each machine) and one mackenzie (a central server to store timesheets on the cloud).

## Introduction

I gathered some requirements for the task:

- Daily tracking
- Easy to use
- Automated
- Tracking across all machines (I have a MacBook Pro & Mac Mini)
- Data aggregation in the cloud
